Welcome back.
Let's learn how to build our own graph graphs when you look at them look very intimidating.
But here's the thing we've actually learned the tools necessary to build graphs because graphs are built
on top of other data structures.
Remember this diagram of the directed acyclic graph Well many of the data structures that we've been
playing with up until now can create something like this using trees and link lists.
I mean it looks pretty similar right.
You have a node with children and different pointers
using that knowledge.
Let's talk about how to start thinking about graphs or at least how to think about building them.
There's three ways they can think about it.
The first is called an edge list and I have an example for you that we can use to build something like
this.
Let's say we want to build this graph how would we go about doing this.
With an edge list we can say Konst graph equals to something like this.
Now let's see what I did here.
I have an array and within this array I have one two three four items that itself.
They are a race.
But if we look at the graph the array simply states the connections.
That is we have zero and two as the first item in the array.
We have two and three as the second array inside of the array and then two and one and one and three
an edge list simply shows the connection that zero is connected to 2 and 2 is connected to zero.
Two is connected to three threes connected to 2 to 1 1 to 3.
So on and so forth quite simple.
There's another way called adjacency or adjacent list and in this case we can create a graph where the
index is the note and the value is the nodes neighbors what I mean by that.
Well then here we can use arrays we can use objects we can use Linked Lists.
But let's say that in the index of 0 the first item 0 is connected to 2
index of one that is node one is connected to 2 and three index of two is connected to 0 1 and 3 and
then finally index of 3 or No3 is connected to 1 and 2.
And you can also do the above with an object where it might even be clearer.
And if a node value is something other than a number you can actually give it a value.
So a key and a value.
And this is extremely useful with object if you have.
Like I said not a sequential number as we do in this example.
And when we implement our own graph we're going to use an adjacent list using an object.
And you'll see what I mean.
Finally I want to show you the last method to represent graphs.
It's called adjacent matrix and an adjacent matrix is going to look something like this this matrix
is simply going to have zeros and ones indicating whether the node X has a connection to node y.
Zero means no one means yes.
And if you have a way to graph you can actually add weights here instead of 1 and 0.
So they can actually be numbers.
I'm not going to type this out because I'm going to bore you to death but here is the same representation
that we've done with at least an adjacent list this time with adjacent matrix.
What does it mean.
Well index of 0 has connection with 0 1 2 0 0 is connected to two.
Then no one is connected to two and three node 2 is connected to 0 1 and 3.
And you can see how it's very similar to here and node 4 is connected to one and two just like over
here.
And once again instead of a race you can use objects here and actually give it a key and a value.
So that this if it was an object would be zero one to and three.
And if we go to visual go you'll actually see that they have these three ways to describe graphs.
The adjacency matrix.
And because it's weighted.
You see that there's numbers here instead of 1.
We have the adjacency list where it looks like here they have a hash table with the values and also
an edge list with an extra property of the weights.
Because this is a way to graph and you can see the weights as well in the adjacency list.
But we've just taken a look at a lot of numbers.
I think it's time for us to build our own graph to finalize our understanding.
I'll see in the next one.
Bobby.